+++
draft=false
title="Sacrificial Source"
tags=["magic-source"]
[Params]
  abstract="The source of magic that pulls from self sacrifice."
+++

*Also known as: Dark, Destructive, or Harmful source.*

You feel your wound, less like the searing pain, but more like a weight dragging you to the floor. The arrow pierced your shoulder right near the connection of your right arm. It snapped with agony as you dropped to the ground. Bandits, lost men from the war, have reaved as far south as Forkford, but no word had come that the ventured down the Fort Road. You don't know what they could have dreamed to collect from a farmstead such as yours, nor do you know what they thought you'd do if they took it without putting an arrow through your shoulder. In all likelihood you'd have ran to the hills before fighting for the half rotten grain stores and sick cows. The war took your crop, and the war took the bandit's sense. The wound pools blood on the wooden planks of your farmstead's porch. You hear the screams of your daughter, last remaining child, your sons all lost to the war. Your wife wasn't the same when the youngest son was taken into the Lord's duty, she was found drowned in the creek. You pull yourself to your feet, with whatever strength you have left, and you wonder if your sons were reaving men like the ones before you. "Oh, so the old man still kicks," the leader on the horse sneers. You had served for three long years in the Lord's army, took half a year to find your way home, never once felt a wound. All of that to be shoot over rotten grain and a sick cow. One has your daughter by the hair, another notches another arrow to send you to the grave. "Any final words, old cap?" You feel something, a bargain arise in you. The bandit pulls. Black tendrils of shadow and bone strike towards the bandits. The arrow looses and thuds against a post next to your head. You feel blood rushing from your wound, as it turns solid and black, like blades of glass or steel. The bandits fall, so does your arm. "A worthy sacrifice," you think, "an arm for two lives."

The sacrificial source has a conduit pull from the magic of desperation and life itself. It calls upon the conduit to sacrifice bits of themself to gain magical ability. This source is often used by the desperate in times of great strife or consequence. The source often asks too much of its conduit, and those that use this source don't usually live long lives.

The sacrificial source is unique among the normal sources in that it does not have triggers. There are two ways to engage with this source.

## Minor Sacrifice 

A sacrificial source conduit can gain X *mp* by taking X *hp* of [Immediate]({< ref "/core/ref/damage.md#immediate" >}}) [I]({{< ref "/core/ref/damage-types.md#internal" >}}) damage, where X is any positive whole number. This act may look like whatever the conduit desires and signifies the conduit giving a bit of their effort or life to gain magic. 

This can be done in a combat using a major action. If this action is taken in combat, the actor also receives one wound and the [Wounded]({{< ref "/core/ref/wounded-condition.md" >}}). 

## Major Sacrifice

A sacrificial source conduit can pull a great amount of magic from this source by giving up one of the following body parts:

- **Eye**: a conduit can give an eye to gain a full refill of *mp*. In addition, you gain temporary *mp* equal to your total *mp*. This eye cannot be regenerated by any means.
- **Arm**: a conduit can give an arm to gain a full refill of *mp*. In addition, you gain temporary *mp* equal to two times your total *mp*. This arm cannot be regenerated by any means.
- **Leg**: a conduit can give a leg to gain a full refill of *mp*. In addition, you gain temporary *mp* equal to three times your total *mp*. This leg cannot be regenerated by any means.

A prosthetic, magical spell, or other items might replace the missing body part, but the original will never be returned. You cannot sacrifice an artificial or magical body part.

This can be done in a combat using a minor action. If this action is taken in combat, the actor also receives three wounds and the [Wounded]({{< ref "/core/ref/wounded-condition.md" >}}).
